Today's episode is a conversation with
the founders of the company that was my
very first ever angel investment, a
company called Ladder. At the time, I
had absolutely no idea what I was doing.
I didn't know the first thing about
venture capital, startup investing,
technology, software, all things I've
learned a lot about through Invest Like
the Best and elsewhere since. But at the
time, I was betting on my friend Tom. As
you'll hear Tom and Greg discuss the
story of building this company together.
This is a classic example of what it
really takes to build something special
and valuable in the world of startups.
It has not been a straight line. It's a
company that easily could have died and
probably should have died many times.
But it has survived and gone on to
thrive, reaching almost hund00 million
of recurring revenue and building what
they hope is the system of record for
fitness and health. I believe this story
is a great example of what it really
takes to go the distance. Of course, the
story is still being told, but I love
this episode with Tom and Greg because
it's an inside look at the difficult
things that any founders will have to go
through on the way to an ultimately
great story. We try to get into all the
nitty-gritty details. What went wrong,
what they did to fix it, and why they're
now on the right trajectory. Please
enjoy this great conversation with Tom
and Greg, the founders of Ladder.
So, Ladder was the first ever angel
investment that I made, which
effectively was a bet on Tom. This was
before I had any idea what I was doing
in private markets. And uh I've learned
a lot from watching you guys build over
the years. The story is fairly amazing
and unlikely and dramatic, which is why
I'm excited to do this with you guys to
tell the story of the business that
you've built so far and and where it
might go. The idea, I think, for our
conversation today is to show people how
incredibly hard it is to build something
that ends up being very valuable and the
twists and turns that happen along the
way. It's amazing that you've ended
where you are, but I find it all the
more interesting how you got here. And
of course, we'll also talk about where
you're going. Maybe to begin, since not
everyone will know what the business is,
just literally describe what the actual
product and business is. And then I want
to tell the the the real dirty version
of the story of how you got here.
>> Ladder is the number one app for
strength training. We've built a system
that's designed to make it as easy as
possible to maintain a consistent
routine. We spent a lot of time thinking
about personal training. Arguably the
most reliable way to get to the results
that you're looking for is hiring coach.
Unattainable for most inaccessible for
most. But personal training, if you
think about how it breaks down, it's
programming, coaching, and
accountability. Programming, you know
exactly what to do. Someone's prepared
it for you. There's no guesswork.
There's no thinking. Uh coaching, you
have an expert there to guide you,
answer your questions. And
accountability, you have a coach
standing in front of you. You don't want
to piss off your coach. which is a
really powerful motivator. Then we took
those three pillars and designed an
experience from ground up to get as
close as possible to to that experience.
>> How has it been so successful? Because I
feel like this is almost like a Silicon
Valley meme like you have a fitness app
like there's 4,000 million fitness apps
to what would you attribute the fact
that this one is the one that seems to
have come to dominate in a sea of
competition? I think it's it's going to
sound simple, but it's understanding
your customers and really being an
engineering first business. If you look
at most companies in our space, they're
started by creators and they're good
products, they're good companies, but
the creator is the face of that
business. They make every decision and
they don't have a DNA that's rooted in
in engineering, in problem solving. And
when you look at these apps, they're
mostly just content libraries and the
motion is just constantly creating more
and more content. But what we saw was
nobody was spending time thinking about
how to use these incredible levers uh to
deliver an experience that actually
increases the odds of you continuing on.
We looked at apps like social networks
and we looked at Dualingo. all these
apps that we're using all these powerful
motivational mechanics and pointing them
at at an action. For social media
networks, it's selling your attention.
For Duolingo, it's learning a language.
And so, we took that mentality of how do
we use software to create an experience
that's totally different than what
exists today that isn't reliant on a
neverending content machine. And it's
been guided by our members. We spend
more time than you could imagine just
speaking to our members, dissecting
exactly what we should focus on based on
what they care about. And so I think
it's just not looking at other companies
for inspiration. Like we just don't look
at fitness almost ever.
>> Just to give people a sense of scale,
like roughly, you know, how many people
use it? What sort of revenue does the
business do? Just like give people a
sense of of how big the business is.
>> Yeah, we're we're north of 300,000
paying members today. I think at the
beginning of 23, we were 9,000 paying
members. So the growth has been
exciting. We're getting pretty close and
knocking on the door at 100 million of
AR. So it's been very exciting from a
revenue growth perspective, but it all
boils down to we've created a product
that gets people the results that they
want and they stay with us.
>> So sort of having like laid that quick
simple groundwork for what the thing is.
I would love to rewind time and Tom have
you talk about actually we've literally
recorded podcast at the same table. I
don't know do you know what year that
was? 2017 maybe
>> 2017 the beginning chapter of the
business call it 2017 to 2020 or so was
a struggle to sort of stay alive and you
personally put so much of your time your
reputation on the line to go do this
thing you left a really lucrative
successful hedge fund career to do it
maybe you can just tell the story of
those early years and what was going on
and why it was such a again I want to
paint the story of like 100 million AR
is awesome congratul ratulations. That's
really fantastic. I'm very happy as an
investor, but the more interesting part
of this is is what it takes to get
there. So, maybe set the stage for us.
>> So, ladder started as a it was really a
side hustle for me, I guess. A uh high
school classmate
uh that I went to school with up in
Boston had pitched me on a on a fitness
startup. The product didn't exist yet. I
think it was um a pitch that I was just
kind of looking to swing at at the time.
Was, you know, very interested in
startups and technology. He asked me to
put some money into the business, which
I did. I then raised the rest of the
money and ended up joining him as uh
co-founder and president of the
business. And my condition for joining
the business was to move the company to
Austin, Texas. You know, for me that was
less about warm weather and a change in
lifestyle. It was about separating
myself from safety nets and uh putting
distance between New York and my
Bloomberg terminal and kind of the the
easy way out cuz I assumed it would get
hard. I didn't know it would get, you
know, quite as as hard as it did.
There's really two ladders or two
different companies here. Same name. I
would call ladder 1.0 as everything
pre2020 and after 2020. The name's
ladder and we're in the fitness space,
but it was a it was a different team. Uh
it was a different product. What we were
originally building was more of a
managed marketplace for personal
training. We thought that it was about
there was heavy emphasis on on
personalization and a relationship with
another human. We thought that was, you
know, really the opportunity. What we'd
come to find out is that business would
be very operationally complex, um,
difficult to scale. You know, ultimately
as you scale that business, it starts to
look more like a call center and you'd
be um, inclined to start to automate
away the very human you were selling in
order to build anything that had
margins, you know, worthy of venture
type economics and scale. So
uninteresting. But what we were seeing
was that all of the innovation in the
space was focused on the casual fitness
consumer. We were noticing that it was
all very cardiobased and we saw that
this fitness enthusiast customer was
really they were being ignored. Strength
training in particular, there was no one
selling strength training solutions. And
we got excited that there was this
fitness enthusiast customer that was
already working out that had a huge pain
point around just planning their
workouts daily. and we got excited that
this is something that we can solve with
software. So, you know, we find
ourselves in Austin, Texas. You by the
time I get down there, I realized, you
know, startups are really hard and it
didn't quite look like, you know, what I
had been hearing on your podcast as far
as like the uh the iterating and the
learning and just um you know, it was
hard. It was messy. We were kind of out
of money the whole time. We didn't have
>> really any customers to speak of. There
was no signs of product market fit at
that point. Fortunately, this is where
Greg answers the the picture. So Greg
and I went to went to Notre Dame. I
should disclose that all three of us
were classmates at Notre Dame. And uh
Greg and I reconnected in Austin, Texas.
He had left banking and has now been
building startups for a period of time.
It was very obvious that he had this uh
small team that believed in him very
much and it was clear that he wanted to
build something very meaningful and
consumer. So I kind of spent my time um
you know tricking him into joining us if
you will. eventually, you know, I got
him under the hood and excited about um
about what we were building. And why I
was so interested in startups myself is
that I had this um this sense that you
could you could something to happen in
the startup world. It just felt like if
you were willing to not stop and you
just keep going. It it seemed like you
could just sheer force determination,
you could build something that was
appealing because in the hedge fund
space, I can promise you in the finance
world that's not possible. You can't
just like will hedge fund returns. I
think Bernie Maid off tried to do that
and um and it doesn't work. It was
obvious to me that he shared that same
belief. We'd be in the middle of a doing
something messy like a debt collector,
whatever it is, something hard. And in
that same next conversation, he's
talking as if our success is inevitable,
you know, and we're going to build this
enduring business. And um I was
attracted to that. I've always felt that
way. And so, you know, I could just tell
that Greg seemed like the type of guy
you wanted to be in a foxhole with. So,
it's now it's now uh the end of 2019 and
I'm realizing that we have this
opportunity to reset and to really think
about like what what can ladder 2.0 be.
But in order to do that, we need to
really refocus, restructure, was
thinking about a you know what a
leadership transition could look like. I
found myself in a position where I was
our largest financial shareholder. you
know, in addition to being in the
company as a co-founder early days, it
was all people like yourself that had
put money in because they trusted me
personally. And so I felt this this
naturally this obligation and um you
know I think my my role and mindset
shifted from one of co-founder to trying
to be a steward of the business. And at
that point this is the day after
Christmas 2019 came to the board and
proposed that that we needed to make um
some pretty significant leadership
changes in order to really um in order
to really reset the business. And as
part of that we had some changes at the
executive level including naming Greg
CEO. But it felt like at that moment
like you know we we had this sense of
like we can go we can go build this
thing now. Like our problems were hardly
solved but it felt like the problems
were now worth solving.
>> Just to put like a finer point on the
situation for you personally. You've
left this job. We're making a bunch of
money. You're in Austin. You moved your
family. You've gotten most of your good
friends and your family as far as I
understand it. My family. So many people
that you cared about that that cared
about you too
>> uh to invest in this thing. What did
that feel like? What was the darkest
point and what did it feel like for you
personally?
>> Well, it just felt like there was
nothing you you weren't willing to do to
to make it work, you know? And I think
that's why it was um it was appealing to
meet someone else that kind of felt that
way that was kind of going to be in that
fox. I should have learned that lesson
and said I need to not raise money from
friends and family. Instead, they were
the only people at that moment that I
needed to double and triple down. Um you
just had to go even further all in. Um
not sure I would do it again or or
recommend other people take that path.
>> Why not? You have to just like know deep
down that you'd be willing to do
whatever it takes, you know, including
like, you know, some very difficult
conversations with your wife and you're
building a family and, you know, you're
leaving a lot on the table on, you know,
a much easier, cushier, you know, hedge
fund, country club type, you know,
existing here in the Northeast and, uh,
you know, you want to go and, you know,
do something hard. Turns out it's it's
pretty [__] hard. I think that
dynamic is why ladder is here, though. I
mean like your motivation was delivering
to everyone in your life and like that
that sits with you every single day. I
don't think there was a moment where we
thought we weren't going to figure it
out. Like I can't think of one day we
were like it's not going to happen. Like
we're we were going to figure it out.
And on my side I don't have that same
dynamic I do now. But it wasn't true
when I first joined. Not everybody was
invested in ladder. But I had a
conversation with my wife where she said
this is the last one. Like if you if you
don't figure this one out there are no
more startups. It had been 10 years of
not a lot of success tied to a lot of
work. And my wife married an investment
banker who was a closeted entrepreneur.
And she's been an investment banker for
18 years. And it's been a long time of
like, you know, I'm going to the
clubhouse. I'm going to figure it out
today. Like I promise it's coming. It's
coming. And that's been an enormous
motivator of like, no, this is going to
work. I mean, we're there's just no
scenario where we can, you know, let
this not get to the vision that we we've
set ourselves on. Why did you decide to
join it? You know, if you think about
the circumstance that you were opting
into, uh he said it best, you know, no
money, no product market fit, like need
needing a whole new team, you know, why
not just like start a new company or
something like why why come into this?
>> It was kind of this perfect moment that
is very unlikely to ever happen again. I
was building a company inside of a big
real estate private equity business, a
consumer company, uh, which had all
kinds of complexities of trying to be an
innovator inside of a really established
company. But I had this amazing team of
people, some that have been with me for
a couple of ventures, some that I've
worked with for two, five years. Really
powerful team that could build anything.
This is product and and engineering and
and marketing, but a core group that we
wanted to just keep working together and
we wanted to be in consumer. We wanted
to work on a hard problem. But we had a
group of people that were not at a stage
of life where they could take zero
salary and start something from a
garage. People were starting to have
kids, you know, life is starting to
happen. We got spouses
and so just starting something from
scratch. And we thought about it. It
just seemed like it was a hard task to
keep the group together. That was my
number one focus is like keep this group
together. It's special and I wanted to
hold on to it for for dear life. So like
that's what I was solving for consumer
and bring my most important people and
let's take another swing together.
>> Talk about what a given day was like in
when you guys joined forces there's
still this mess to clean up and then
there's this thing you have to go build
and it's like two sides of the coin. How
what would a day look like in those
early days?
>> It's literally like late March 2020 when
we've zeroed in on the concept for this
this new product and we're having to go
fully remote. the teams knew. So,
everyone's working from home other than
Greg, myself, and and Johnny. And the
mornings were for the messy stuff. It
was um you know, just figuring out how
to untangle some of the situations we
found ourselves in, debt collectors,
actually just trying to to kind of fix
things so we can move forward. And um in
the afternoons, we're actually building
product and Greg's focused on, you know,
winding the team up and, you know,
iterating on what we're about to build
and launch, you know, a few months
later. Um, we're raising money kind of
at any moment during that. Like I'm
spending every moment redialing people
that are already investors and reaching
out to new people. What I what I
remember most though about those days
cuz it was it was hard but it was also
so exciting. And I think about um you
know at night at like 10:00 we would
finish the whole world has stopped.
Everyone's at home. We've been in the
office grinding since 6:00 a.m. And at
10:00 it would be like all right like
whatever win we had that day let's
celebrate. And it was like um you've
seen that scene in Good Fellows when
they're all in prison. And when wise
guys go to prison, it's not like
everyone else. They got lobsters coming
in and
>> slicing the garlic.
>> Yeah. Slicing the garlic with the uh
with the little razor blade. You know,
for us, our version of that, we're
cooking steaks on the grill. We're
smoking cigars in the office cuz no one
else is coming in. Uh I'm shaking
martinis up there. And uh we're
high-fiving about raising $10,000
checks. That was exciting cuz frankly it
felt more like the startups that were
romanticized by the you know podcasts
and books and you know all the kind of
fun stuff.
>> But it it was survival and like when
you're in a moment where it literally is
survival it's not hard to know what to
work on where it wasn't hard for us to
know what mattered. We needed to not run
out of money. So Degan was spending time
trying to solve that problem. We were in
debt and owed a lot of people a lot of
money and it's a startup so it's really
hard to get a clear picture of the
financials and where money is going and
it was the first thing I worked on was
like where's where's the money going. We
put that piece together and you know no
one can really see this or is looking at
it and you realize like money's going in
different places that we're not totally
aware of and mission number one was like
figure out the cash flow and we got we
got visibility into that and then we had
we had some money that we owed to people
and we owed some like hardcore creditors
like American Express who like doesn't
really mess around and I learned and
Degan learned all about how to negotiate
creditors and that was a new skill set
for me.
>> What's the key to that? What's the
lesson? uh begging you money.
>> Like when when you get them to really
believe and it was true that there's a
chance you get zero, there's a door to
negotiate. Like we were negotiating with
big creditors at 20 cents on the dollar.
>> And we knew the list of groups that we
owe money to and it was like it was like
sales. We're like, "All right, we got to
go one by one and figure out how to
close the door on this and not let it
overhang the business." And so raise
money, get money back to the right
people, clean up the house to survive.
And then we had this moment around this
time where it's like we have this
existing existing business. It's not
it's not working. There's some insights
that are coming out of it, but it's
really not working. Um, but we're still
trying to maintain it. So we're kind of
living in this like in between moment of
like keep that thing alive so we can
pitch something to to folks on the
outside, but also like what are we going
to do? Like what are we going to build?
isn't this like there's no path in this
thing that that we've built. So there
are really funny stories uh where Degan
was pitching, I'm pitching, and you're
basically trying to figure out what the
investor likes and you're like, "Let me
tell you about this one to one business
we got." It's like super excit Oh, you
know, like that like we're thinking
about this social concept and you're
just kind of living this world of
figuring out how do I make it through?
And there were enough wins like the the
micro wins on survival felt big to us
and there was enough to like celebrate
to keep going and wake up and go do it
again. If you were to teach a class on
fundraising for startups now, you you
you've done this as masterfully as
anyone with the with their cards you
were dealt. What would the lesson plan
look like?
>> One of the biggest lessons particularly
from that moment is like selling people
on like your your conviction in that
moment we were selling both like the
product that we were about to shut down,
but we didn't really even have visuals
yet for the new product. So, it was as
much just like selling the team and the
conviction on what we were about to
build. Like I think like the best
example of that is a story about um
another friend of ours named we'll call
him Bill in March of 2020 trying to
kickstart a round but no one's going to
lead this round naturally cuz who would
who would lead a round in our business
at that moment. And so I was about to
lead another inside round where
basically like I'm pricing the round and
uh passing the hat to you know to all
the boys and whoever would listen. And
um and so what what happened there was
now I need some more cash. I think
Braden knows like how many times I wrote
check in into the business. But I kept
um this was another example of being
like all right the only way to get this
going is to write the first check and
then you know and and lead with that uh
with that conviction showing that you
were you know had skin in the game here.
Again at this point I'm trying to figure
out how to sell anything that's not
nailed down. And so it's you know 401k
put that in done. Uh what else can we
do? And um this story here is funny
because I'm looking at kind of the line
items on the balance sheet if you will.
I'm like, "Oh, permanent equity." And uh
that's that's Patrick's friend, Brent
Behore. And uh Brent came and told his
story on this podcast. Uh he has an
unbelievable strategy, and it's called
permanent for a reason. And that, you
know, he buys these family-owned um you
know, awesome businesses and then holds
them forever. And so you're not, you
know, you're not necessar there isn't
like a liquidity profile here. But I
read the documents and it said that if
you found another LP to sell to that you
could sell. And so I called Brent and
said, "Hey, I need your investor list."
And he's like, you know, the market S&P
is down 35%. We're in a global pandemic.
Like, of course, I'm not giving you my
investor. You're you're my smallest
investor. Like, you think I'm But he
does me a solid and he's like, "Hey, you
should call Bill." Bill's a friend. He's
Patrick's friend. You know, Bill,
another Notre Dame guy. So, I call I
call Bill and uh and Bill's a gamer. So,
he's just like, "Uh, what are you
looking to do? When do you need this
by?" And he's like, "What are you
thinking? Like, how do we mark this?"
And I'm like, "Well, the market's down
this, you know, what about down 10%."
And we and he's like, "What about down
50?" and we do the dance and we end up
kind of somewhere in the middle and I'm
like you're done but I need the money
tomorrow and he's like I'll send you the
money tomorrow and I'm investing in
whatever this is going into. He doesn't
even really know what ladder is but he's
like but I'm in and like I think the the
point there is like just like in
particularly those early days it's
important to have skin in the game in
whatever way you can. Like and I think
you know for us it was about um being
able to show that level of like
conviction and urgency like Bill didn't
need to see a deck. We didn't have a new
product yet. He knew you were involved
and he was just like if you're willing
to do this like you know I need I need
to be involved too.
>> So he bought your steak and then also
invested in the round that you were that
you were investing in.
>> I think he matched what he was what he
was sending me which was which was
awesome and that kind of kicked it off.
>> We're glossing over a lot. Maybe we'll
keep returning to fun. I love that
story. Um but let's get to the point now
where things are starting to feel like
okay now we have to build this next
thing. Maybe this is a good opportunity
to ask you what you now know about the
world of like fitness and people that
want to get fit like what becomes your
northstar for what product can we build
here that's scalable that can get to
what it's become.
>> Yeah. It was no magic bullet that said
go do this and you'll and you'll win.
But we spent a lot of time the first two
three months I was there trying to
dissect the current business. And the
current business was this onetoone
essentially marketplace connecting
independent contractor coach with a
consumer who is looking for personal
training. And we're we're kind of
studying the behavior and watching
what's going on here. And what I noticed
was like the coaches could set their own
price and like some people had crazy
high prices, some people had more
approachable prices. And they're
building this as customizable program.
like I'm I'm building it for you based
on your very specific goals and that's
why I'm charging you this amount. And on
the back end, we could see that, you
know, it really wasn't personalized. It
was like big bucket personas and like
the names were like uh Sally Pilates,
you know, and that was being built as
super personalized programming and
charging like you would work with a
coach. But we could see like these big
bucket personas. were like, "Okay, like
maybe personalization isn't the secret
here, but it's having good programming
that's relevant to you." And that same
moment, I went through the list of
coaches, and there weren't a lot of
coaches that were making a lot of money
on this, but we had a couple that were
making four or five grand a month. And
uh and I spent time with them and I
asked them like, "What are you doing
differently? Like, how are you making
this a thing when everybody else is is
struggling with it?" And we had one in
particular and I was like all right so
like you're making four grand a month
your earnings aren't growing like what's
going how did you get there and like uh
why isn't it growing anymore and Lauren
was a trainer in New York like a high
ticket trainer in person and she was
filling up all of her downtime with
online clients with with ladder and we
had no idea how to grow. She figured out
like I had this Instagram profile. She
had five or 10,000 people and she was
telling a story to her audience and they
were coming in but she filled up all of
her time and she couldn't take on any
more clients. I'm like that's a bad
business. Like you've capped how big
this can get. You the constraint is
human human time. So these two insights
of calling [__] on personalization,
kind of watching what Lauren was doing
and seeing how she was growing and
piecing those together into what became
like a trial test or an MVP of this
vision. We didn't know what we would
build, but we said there's something in
these concepts. And in February 2020, we
said, "Okay, uh, you can't take on any
more business, Lauren. Like what if we
jimmy rig the existing app?" and we
created an experience where there could
be more than one person in there. You're
going to program for a group of women.
You'll go out to your Instagram audience
and you'll say, "Hey, this is for I'm in
New York, you know, busy women in New
York, kettle bell training. I'm an
experienced coach. I'm going to give you
new workouts every week. It's not
customized, but very specific persona
that she was talking to. And we're going
to have this chat in the app where we
all can talk to each other." And the app
looked like [__] like the functionality
barely worked, but the concept was was
clear. We're in process of dying in this
moment. She went out to her Instagram
audience and we had like a 100 people
sign up at 100 bucks a month very fast.
Like that was the most exciting thing
I'd seen yet, you know, other than
getting wins against American Express
and her creditors. And that was awesome.
We're like, okay, there's demand. Like
Lauren's audience, they came in like
very clearly like there's interest in
this concept. So that first month it was
uh we were just watching what was
happening because there was nothing else
to look at from a a product perspective.
And I think what the most amazing and
impressionful thing to me was these
people had found each other in the app.
They were similar personas. They lived
in a similar place, busy women following
the same workouts every day interacting
with the coach and each other. They'd
never met each other, but they started
posting on Instagram about Lauren and
Ladder. And then we saw them meeting up
in New York at the park together. They
had never met each other before. And
that was like magical. We're like, we
have this community elements and social
and they're happy. And we had never seen
anything like that in the original
version of the product. So all these
like little glimmers of hope on this
concept of programming that's not
personalized, but it's high quality.
It's meant for a specific persona. This
social accountability element. all these
things were like bubbling up as real
tangible proof points of something that
could be interesting to to go work on.
And that group like the renewal rate was
like 90% plus like people paid again.
We're like damn like they're doing the
workouts and they're staying with us.
And if you looked at the app, you would
go this is garbage. But like the promise
was being delivered uh on what we were
proposing. We ran one more trial with
another coach. It was the exact same
outcome. I talked to almost all those
women like on the phone. It was like who
are you and like how did you find
Lauren? Why did you go into this app?
What problem were you trying to solve?
And we talked to all of them and built a
relationship and like all those were
inputs.
>> Did anything surprise you in those
conversations?
>> It validated a lot of things we were
learning in in real time. It's like why
did you join? I'm tired of thinking
about what workout to do. I'm already
into fitness, but I spend time actually
planning this. It's a painoint for me. I
don't want to go spend $1,000 on a
coach. I need something more
approachable, but I need help with a
plan. I need to know that I'm doing the
right thing. I want a coach that is
helping me and have confidence that it's
the right thing to do. That was a real
thing. And then we saw them meeting up
and they would say, "Oh, I met someone
just like me." And they had the same
pain points and they become a friend and
we work out together and that was magic.
Uh and so all these little kernels just
speaking and forming a picture that got
clearer and clearer and clearer was the
was the beginning of what that what that
product would be.
>> Your finance team isn't losing money on
big mistakes. It's leaking through a
thousand tiny decisions nobody's
watching. Ramp puts guard rails on
spending before it happens. Real-time
limits, automatic rules, zero
firefighting. Try it at ramp.com/invest.
Every investment firm is unique and
generic AI doesn't understand your
process. Rogo does. It's an AI platform
built specifically for Wall Street
connected to your data, understanding
your process, and producing real
outputs. Check them out at
rogo.ai/invest.
The best AI and software companies from
OpenAI to cursor to Perplexity use work
OS to become enterprise ready overnight,
not in months. Visit works.com to skip
the unglamorous infrastructure work and
focus on your product.
>> If you think about the uh everyone's
very fond of the Elon algorithm for
company building now, uh it's been been
kind of passed around as like one one
method for doing this. If you had to
distill your like algorithm for how you
proceeded from that initial kernel of an
insight of okay here's something that
people are paying for and like
>> and we can do something with this all
the way through to where the product is
today.
>> What's what's been that your as the CEO
algorithm for that iterative improvement
to get from the original kernel to now?
>> Well, I can tell you number one is like
don't listen to investors on product
feedback. That's that is by far number
number one. But for us is it's two
things. It's prioritization like
ruthlessly prioritize. You have to prove
we have to prove to each other that this
is going to be additive to the product.
And additive to the product means we
have a thesis that is going to increase
workout completions. That's our
northstar. Like we're solving not for
getting you to pay one time. We're
solving for you to actually complete
workouts with ladder. And what can we go
build to go improve the odds of you
doing that and and staying with us? And
how we get to that is we don't guess.
Like we absorb every piece of
information that's coming in and it's
all driven by our members. And if you
ask the right questions and you have
people that are talking to you, you can
start forming a picture of what are the
huge buckets that actually move the
needle and you can do some work to
figure out how complex is this to go
build and go do it. And don't do 10
other things just because it's
interesting or you can do it. Just do
the one thing and do it really well and
then do it again. And like that's still
the case today. like we just launched
nutrition. It's the biggest thing we
built since the first version of the
product. And people on the outside were
like that's a that should be a separate
app or like that's a different business.
And we're like well to our customer it's
not. You know we did this survey a year
ago. You had 5,000 people spending 50
minutes and it was qualitative and quant
and we were trying to figure out what
are the biggest bets that we could go
make. We were ready for a big project
and we didn't want to guess. And out of
that work it became very clear that it
was nutrition. And what we learned was
we have a third of our members who are
tracking macros. And of of that third,
90% are using an app. And of that 90%,
most are using My Fitness Pal and they
hate it. And they're really tired of
managing their problem set in two
different spaces. And what we learned
through that experience and talking to
members was that for the consumer, it's
one problem set. I want to lose weight.
I want to gain muscle. There are inputs
and outputs to that math equation.
Outputs is activity and exercise. input
is what you're eating and they're
managing this in two places and they
know that's not the right way to do it
because if you worked with a coach these
things are all symbiotic together but it
all started with a colonel from our
members and we had really clear line of
sight that this was would move the
needle they were telling us I want you
to use all of these things motivational
mechanics streaks badges celebrations
and help me with the other side of the
equation which is going to dictate
success or not and then once we have
that kernel like we go very we do
another survey we go very deep on
nutrition like extremely deep to
understand and we all review it, read
everything, we synthesize it and it
gives us a blueprint. When you do that,
that becomes obvious what to build.
>> What does very deep mean?
>> Uh the nutrition survey uh you know that
was probably couple hundred questions.
We read all of them like now you can put
them in chatbt. In the beginning of this
like I would copy and paste app store
reviews into a word doc. I would read
every single one of them and I'd
organize the the words by buckets and I
color code them and I would do chat GBT
and I have these documents that are 100
pages long and it's all just
deconstructed words
>> from our our members and very similar to
survey work in the in the beginning we
would do that with surveys we dissect
the themes what do people care about and
now you can use chatbt to synthesize all
this what is the biggest bet that we can
make on behalf of our members and then
we'll think about what are the building
blocks of what this should do is this
nutrition coaching? Is it macro
tracking? Like what does the feature set
do? And you aim questions at uncovering
the painoint and what they're looking
for and that becomes the guide on the
first version.
>> What did you learn there? What do people
want on nutrition?
>> There are two halves to this. And from
my perspective, it's looking backwards
and looking forwards. What they were
doing is tracking looking backwards.
Make it really easy to track macros. I
want to know if I'm in a surplus or a
deficit. I want good visualizations. And
I want it to be really easy in terms of
how to log. It's very tedious. It's very
hard with some of the existing uh legacy
products. So give me an easy way to do
this. And so the looking backwards to us
was basically the table stakes. We need
to give a really easy path to tracking
macros, logging your meals, logging your
food, and telling you what's happening
as a result. And then if we do that, and
we do that really, really well, there's
going to be a whole other opportunity to
tell you what to do. not what you did,
but what to do. People want to, our
members want to know what to eat
specifically. Where should I get it? I'm
at a restaurant. Here's the menu. What's
the best choice right now based on my
goals? They want prescriptive advice.
But the looking backwards was what they
were using for uh the apps that they
were using at that moment. It was mostly
my fitness pal. And there was no brand
affinity or love. It was just the tool
that existed that there was trust
because they had the biggest database.
They had done it for a long time. But
there was just a lot of pain in these
conversations on how they were doing
this stuff. So we we made a a conscious
decision not to charge for it. So we're
going to give this part away. We want to
go build trust with this group and win
over tracking with ladder. We're not
going to convince the whole new group to
do this. We're going to go get the
people who are already doing it. We're
going to do it better and we're going to
win their trust. Start compiling this
data and there's a million products that
we can now build. Like if you think
about what nutrition does for us, it
gives us the whole math equation of
inputs and outputs. There's no product
in the world that that has that. So the
picture around the consumer, it's the
clearest of any other potential product
or service around around this consumer.
We know exactly what's happening on both
sides of the equation. And that's going
to unlock a whole bunch of products and
services to to help our our consumer.
>> And this would be things like I could
take a picture of my food and you're
like, I'm
>> we already have that table. Take a
picture. That's easy. but also tell you
what's the level of confidence and
accuracy because there are trade-offs if
you use take a picture versus scanning a
barcode or entering uh very specifically
an ingredient or or a recipe. So, we had
to nail that use case, make it super
slick, make it very easy to use. And
that was the beginning of like building
trust. Even in that process though, you
have to like how do you how do you
figure out what to build? We built the
first version. We have a group of 2,000
members who are beta members and we give
it to them. But first, we do it as a
team. That's the alpha. We're all giving
feedback. We have a Slack channel.
Everyone's communicating on what's
happening. That helps the picture get
clear. And then we release to our beta
members and it's in the wild and they're
using it and like you hear right away.
What's wrong? What's the gaps? What do
you need? And we had a question. Uh we
would survey these users every week and
we had a question. How likely are you to
switch from your existing app that
you're using? And when it started, uh,
the number was like 20%. Like pretty
low, not super exciting for us. And then
we would go build and and make the
picture clear and help fill the gaps of
what folks were experiencing. And it
kept going up, kept going up, kept going
up, and like there's a point where you
could just you could keep building the
MVP forever, but it was 85% one day, and
it was like, we're ready. Like we're
there, we're done. This is ready for
this is ready for the wild. And then we
released it. And it's been a it's been a
home run. We're in week six. were almost
4 million meals logged which is insane
thinking about those early stories where
we were literally we knew all the people
in the app. Yeah. We were like it was
our buddies who were in the in the we
knew the faces.
>> Yeah.
>> So a really amazing experience.
>> You said before don't listen to
investors on product. Can you say more
about that?
>> Well I think one don't listen to anyone
person on on product that everyone has a
unique use case persona problems
solutions that they're looking for. So
no one person is the source of truth. If
we get one piece of feedback, that's
just one piece of feedback. So when we
talk about investors, like I remember
earlier meetings, it would be like
really prescriptive advice on you should
go build this and it's like maybe like I
don't know like that's what you want and
then we would go test that with our uh
with our user base and ask them and they
would say no I don't want that.
>> Yeah.
>> Extremely empirical way of building.
>> So it's just empirical and like you
don't it doesn't have to be completely
precise but it becomes very clear what
the big chunky buckets are and
everything else on the fringe. It's like
that's not that important. But what is
important becomes very very obvious even
if if it's in line with what an investor
is looking for.
>> At various points through this business,
you and I have had a call and it will be
some period where you describe him
having gone into like a cavelike process
to like go study some new topic like
some new thing has become the the
bottleneck for the business
>> and I I can think of several occasions
when he was studying X Y or Z. describe
from your perspective this like cavelike
process that you've seen him go through
to unlock these bottlenecks.
>> Probably four years ago when we're
trying to figure out growth, we've built
a product, people love it, they're using
it, they're telling us what we need to,
you know, to to build and what features
we need to evolve to improve it, but we
still haven't figured out how to grow,
right? Like that, you know, the way you
get to from 0 to 1 million AR is very
different than the, you know, the 1 to
10. And for us, um, you know, Greg's
view was, look, let's go run some
experiments. And so we're looking at,
you know, some different ways to to
grow, saying, you know, here here are
the kind of different options right now.
There's SEO and we're thinking about how
to go and start to create content on
search. We have a lot of assets in the
app that we can leverage there. Um,
we're looking at some different
channels. Tik Tok kind of being the most
obvious where it's just like all the
eyeballs are there, but the brands
aren't there yet. So like that was
compelling to us. Like we understood
that like the consumer was very
interested in engaging with short form
video. Um, Meta hadn't quite kind of
copied that with their reals product
yet, but it was obvious that that's
where the consumer was going with their
attention and yet the brands weren't
their spending yet. We partnered with
coaches, these world-class coaches who
were all creators. None of them knew Tik
Tok yet. They were all Instagram native.
In fact, I don't think any of them at
this moment were even on Tik Tok. And we
were excited to go figure this out. And
it was it was hilarious because Greg, I
don't know if you've seen his Instagram,
but like it's not particularly cool.
Like he's not a creator,
>> but he was like, I'm going to go and
become like the Tik Tok guy. like I'm
going to be the guy. And I'm like, "All
right, like Mr. Tik Tok over here." And
>> I was like, "You got to go hire
somebody. You got" I'm like, "I'll I'll
figure it out."
>> So he he goes all like mad scientist on,
you know, trying to just like understand
every aspect of Tik Tok to the point
where like fast forward two years later
and like the big dog engineers from
China, you know, are in our office cuz
like Greg would be calling and being
like, "The algorithm is broken." And
they'd be like, "No, no, it's not." And
then and then Greg would go get a bunch
of information from Ryan Mod and send it
through and they'd be like, "Oh, wait.
He he's right. There's something wrong
with ads manager cuz like the ad tech
was very new and so Greg was very much
like triaging and troubleshooting their
ad tech in real time. The other story
that just speak to Greg going into his
cave. Um it's it is winter 2021 probably
March or February and I don't if you
remember like the Texas freeze when like
the entire like the entire state shut
down.
>> We had like an inch of snow but there
was no uh we lost the power grid. So
anyways, Greg goes into a cave because
there's nothing else to do and uh he's
reading the book Crossing the Chasm,
great book that I think all founders
have read. Uh but Greg's output of
reading the crossing the chasm was um a
100page slide deck that he sends me like
when the power comes on and we finally
have internet again and he's just like I
figured out who our customer is. And um
ultimately, you know, that was very
important work because it set up, you
know, what we were about to go do on
TikTok that you couldn't have success
without understanding who that who that
customer is.
>> What did you find in the book?
>> Not trying to be all things to all
people, especially early on. You can go
after a big market problem, but you
don't have to start there.
>> And we were trying to tell a story to
everyone. Like the world was upside
down. Consumers were up for grabs cuz
your gym folks were at home. Everything
was a a mess. all these other companies
are launching and we're saying we're
weights, we're body weight, we're gym,
we're home. Like it was all things to
all people and it wasn't working. Like
we weren't getting to the right person.
And Crossing the Chosm just helped me
kind of zone in on who is like the most
important person that we're talking to
right now and who's finding success and
how do we speak specifically to that
person and not go try to tell a story
that's relevant to a Pelaton user. It
just helped me like just move away all
the noise and narrow in on what mattered
for this person and build a whole kind
of growth strategy around around that.
>> Like you have unlimited time right now
to talk to us about solving this problem
and like how you've how you cracked the
code of growing through something like
Tik Tok like the more detail the better.
I just think obviously it was a like a
or the critical moment for the business
early on once you had figured out the
product just just riff on the experience
like literally what you did.
>> Yeah.
>> And what you learned.
>> We had a whiteboard meeting. We're like
what are the growth loops that we think
are available to us uh that we think we
have an advantage on that we think we
can do within our own team that we can
learn fast enough to get proof points
and to uh to dive in on go all in on.
And Tik Tok came out of that as the as
the winner. And what we started to do
was just make content and we knew
nothing, but we grabbed uh I had this
breakfast meeting with Edel who leads
Branding Creative. And I was like, uh,
hey man, um, do you want to work on
TikTok with me? Uh, and he was like,
sure. This guy is like building all of
our amazing campaigns. Like he's
shooting for Nike. He's done all these
things. And I'm like, I need you to make
Tik Toks with me. Uh, and it's just
going to be me and you.
>> He's got the creative mind. and we
grabbed a coach and we said, "Hey, we're
going to start an account from scratch.
Uh, you're not on TikTok. We want to go
learn. Give us all your raw video that
you have on your iPhone. So, you have
this inventory of video. You have a
smart creative person." We started
handles in the coach's names and we
started to create content. And very,
very quickly, we started to learn what
was the content that worked and we were
dissecting every inch of it. What worked
multiple times in a row? Why? What are
the commonalities? How is this product
used? It's not Instagram. It's like TV.
People are consuming content for
entertainment and it's not a social
platform. It's a media company. And so
you have to think about like what is the
right content that is educational,
provides value that get gets to the
right person because unlike Instagram
where you have an audience that you're
creating content for, you have to create
content that the algorithm knows who to
put in front of the right person. So
it's all about the content. But the
advantage for us at that moment was it
didn't matter how many followers you
had. You can start from scratch. Nobody
knew how to go how to go do this. But
that first account that we started, I
mean, I remember being on the playground
with my kids and uh Edel was like,
"Dude, once one's ripping and it was
like a million views." We're like, "Holy
[__] like that's amazing. That video
took you two seconds to make." And it
was like, "Do it again." And we did it
again. And we took that account from
zero to 250,000 people in in like 45
days. Like we weren't thinking about
paid at all. We were thinking about what
is the pro what is Tik Tok as a product?
How is it being consumed and what
content wins and how do we how do we
create that content? So we got views, we
had proof points of traction and then we
said all right we have blink and bio.
Can we get somebody into the app and and
we did very quickly and we're getting
the right people into the app and all
these things were like starting to
compound. We started another account did
the same things. So we're like all right
like we can we can do this organically.
It was like three months and then we we
said let's start putting some money
behind this and see how it goes. We had
no performance marketing team. Uh we had
no agency. Uh I was absolutely against
hiring anybody outside the company and I
just committed to learning how to be a
performance marketer Tik Tok because we
didn't come from performance marketing
or Facebook. We had no preconceived
notions of how things should go. And
when you talk to Facebook marketers who
are moving to Tik Tok, they were
applying all these rules and heruristics
of Facebook and Instagram to Tik Tok.
But these are two separate platforms.
You have this Chinese app and a
different algorithm. Why would those
rules matter over here? I spoke at a at
a all hands for Tik Tok and I was
talking about some of our strategy and I
had really high conviction in what we
were doing and I was like, "Yeah, I make
budget changes seven to 10 times a day."
And if you talk to the TikTok group,
they're like, "You shouldn't touch it
for two weeks." like it's the learning
phase and all these things. Well, all
those people came from Facebook and all
the rules they were telling me were
Facebook rules. And at the end of the
meeting, this woman comes up to me and
she was like, "That was really
interesting because the things you had
most conviction in are the opposite of
what we're telling our clients to do."
And then I just I realized pretty
quickly that everybody is taking this
mental model over here and applying it
and not trying to figure it out from
scratch of like if it works, do it
again. Who cares what they tell me it
worked? Do it again. Um, that was an
important piece of like just thinking on
our own on on how this how this should
go. I launched my first ad. Okay, like
we could do this. But like very quickly
it was getting people into the app and
then it just became a drug addiction. I
mean it's like it's like trading. I'm
bad at mental math but I'm also
fascinated by traders. And when I was at
Goldman I I would interact with traders.
It was just magic to me. All the screens
and the attention span just like how
does this happen? But it felt like that
for me like I'm moving money around
driving growth for the business and it
became a video game. It's like how do we
beat the video game today? And I had
this amazing creative partner in Zel.
Like I can figure out the ugly of how to
be an ads manager person as my job. And
those two things together unlocked that
channel to just keep going, keep pushing
on. I
>> I feel like the rewards for doing this
in a consumer business are extremely
high. And so lots have probably tried
but not lots have succeeded. What do you
think it was that let you start to win
the video game? Was it the knowledge of
like how to cut a video together? Was it
topics was
>> no what we learned is the for you page
is making a decision on your content of
who your content is for and then it's
shoving it to that person. So the first
game on the creative side was can we
create content that gets to the right
person for this coach. This is a
crossfit modality. Can we get to
crossfit people using content? And that
was just iteration. We would do
something
>> and so you'd say like what does a
crossfit person care about?
>> What do they care about? What's their
problem solution statement? What should
a coach say to get you in? We learned
about hooks. what you say in the
beginning, the first three sentence. It
matters. What should a hook look like?
What do I need to say? Like, it's a
billboard that I need to get your
attention very quickly. And we had a lot
of bad content that didn't work. And
then we had stuff that started to work.
And we have these whiteboards. We
dissected every inch. It's like, what is
she wearing? What word was first? What
was the setting of the gym? What was the
movement? What did we say? And all of
the insights of that come from knowing
your customer. It's not like, hey, we
magically figured out TikTok. We did,
but our edge was we knew our customer
inside and out. Like I had dissected
these app store reviews so deeply that
like we knew the words that were coming
out of the mouth for people in CrossFit
coming into the app and we used that as
our ammunition on how to speak to them
and create compelling content hooks that
got to that person and told the story
very fast that got them to keep going to
follow to come
>> just to orient in the history of the
business. So like how much revenue or
whatever was there at the start of this
kind of scurve and and like how quickly
did it accelerate? Five at the end of
>> yeah it was yeah four four five million
of era we we were getting some success
but like the beginning of the Tik Tok
journey it started at 3 million but five
when we started to put money into the
into the machine
>> and it sort of exploded since then
>> it exploded but like the one of the
things we learned that was critical to
Tik Tok is you have to own the creative
and this was like not typical for brands
in our space they would hire an agency
the agency would make creative but we're
learning all this stuff on the organic
and we're learning that the iteration
cycles are so fast. You can't just hand
it off to an agency and hope that it
comes back correctly. So, we started
investing in creators full-time. We had
JDs on the website in 2023. It said
full-time Tik Tok creator. People were
like, "What the hell is this job?" But
it's no different than social media jobs
10 years ago. That's not a job. Well, it
is a job. It just wasn't a job yet. And
it was the same dynamic. So, complete
control over the creative. We had these
coaches on our team gave us this edge on
compounding learnings. this mini agency
that was figuring it out across all
these different creators that we
controlled that we weren't just waiting
and hoping that somebody on the other
side of the fence would throw us the the
right thing.
>> If that was like the frontier then what
is the frontier now?
>> What we're thinking about now, right,
like is the short form video strategy
will always be a core part of our
strategy. That's not going away. But I
think what we learned
>> it's expanded well beyond TikTok at this
stage.
>> Exactly. I think what we learned last
year though is that we certainly don't
have a product problem. We have a very
special product. Our customers love us
and they're asking us to go deeper with
them, but most people still don't know
who Ladder is. Like we're consistently
top three or four in our category in the
app store and yet like the awareness is
very low. I think that's you know
largely a function of the short form
video strategy that we had that was
speaking with creators in these winning
formats to a specific persona that
wasn't really leading with the latter
brand. Now we're excited to go and um
you know think about celebrity
partnerships and out of home and and TV
and we're already making these
campaigns. Now we're just going to go
and put them in these other in these
other channels. Um so that's like
certainly a big a big focus of next year
is just thinking about telling a telling
a wider story that frankly is just going
to amplify what we're doing on short
form video.
>> How do you how are you going to be
empirical about that in the same way
that you've been about product and and
marketing so far? It seems like a very
different kind of harder to be empirical
kind of.
>> It is, but it's it's small controlled
bets, big on scale, but limited on bets
that we're making. So, if it's a
celebrity partner, we need to know
exactly who that audience is. Is this
someone that resonates with our user?
Are they going to amplify the right
message that represents ladder? And like
to date, we we had no leeway to spend
money that didn't turn into results. It
was like here's the money in the bank,
turn it into users, keep doing it again.
And this is a little bit different, but
what we've realized very quickly is that
like we we do have an awareness problem.
People haven't heard of ladder. We're
getting big. We're the number one
grossing fitness app in the app store.
We're top 100 in the US of all US apps.
It's big. So, we need to go invest in
really concentrated bets that speak very
specifically to our user that leverages
the creative horsepower in our team. We
have like really special people in our
team that can create stuff that no one
in the world can from a from a brand
perspective. So, it's not as perfect of
a science and I kind of bucket it in two
different paths. But my thesis is over
time, it's going to make the short form
engine a lot more efficient. If people
are not aware of ladder, we have like
one video we're trying to convert you.
Like they're learning about ladder in
that video. If you've seen and build
trust with uh someone who's endorsing it
or you have consciousness, a nugget,
yeah, there's a higher likelihood that
that person's going to take the first
the first step. So, I think the two play
together. and you asked like what was
the supercharge over the last you know
couple of years we did deal with general
catalyst that changed the game for us
and their customer value fund and uh
essentially what we realized is like the
capital markets aren't funding CAC in
consumer companies like we can't just go
raise a bunch of money just to put it
into TikTok like the appetite's not not
there no matter how good the product is
and General Catalyst has solved that
where they're financing our investment
growth every month so the payback
happens over times. Not as much of a
cash hit, but it lets me think about
half the house is very performance, very
controlled. You can underwrite it, which
which General Catalyst did. And now
we're going to go invest in some squishy
stuff that should be proven downstream
that it has an impact and makes things
more efficient, but it'll be iteration
like nothing else. It will be a game of
figuring out what works, what doesn't.
>> As your business grows, Vanta scales
with you, automating compliance and
giving you a single source of truth for
security and risk. Learn more at
vant.com/invest.
Ridgeline is redefining asset management
technology as a true partner, not just a
software vendor. They've helped firms 5x
in scale, enabling faster growth,
smarter operations, and a competitive
edge. Visit ridgelineapps.com to see
what they can unlock for your firm.
>> If you think about the experience of you
said you' built some enterprise
companies before this versus consumer,
it seems like in the last 5 years, for a
long time, no one invested in consumer
because actually really up until I guess
very recently, AI is of course unlocking
things in interesting ways. maybe pitch
like if you were to pitch a a young
entrepreneur, a teenager or a young
college student on building a consumer
business rather than the traditional
like B2B thing that's dominated the
startup world for a long time. What
would your pitch be? Why is it fun and
different to build this kind of
business?
>> The the fun part is you you get to see
it every day and it's impacting people
and that that's real. We're providing
real value. We're changing lives. I read
these stories every day coming in uh to
our team of like what happened to this
person because of ladder. Like what else
could inspire you more than that? We're
not selling their attention to
advertisers. Like we're helping their
lives. That's really fun. And the
feedback loop is fast. You make them
think you know exactly what happened and
like that is a that's exhilarating. You
have a report card that's your users and
no one user is the right answer but
collectively they they are. I'd say what
people don't realize in consumer is how
freaking hard it is. And there is no
like quick fixes. There is no growth
hacks are not a real thing. You have to
be black belt black belt at building
products for the consumer and growth.
Like you have to have both those things
within your own team to survive and then
be able to raise money to go fund that
which is its own mission. So in my mind
if you want to get into consumer like
you got to love talking to people. You
got to love extracting information from
human beings to go create solutions for
them. It's not like I think it should be
like that's how consumer companies die
because they just freaking guess and it
doesn't match what the consumer is
looking for. So it's really hard and you
have to you have to be excellent at both
sides of the house. Half our team works
on workout completions. Half of them
works on trials off Tik Tok. That's the
business. Very simple. But we are equal
weight and black belt on both of those
skills. And without either one of them
there would there would be no ladder at
this stage. Great product, no growth,
doesn't work, doesn't get funded. Great
growth engine, no product, leaky bucket,
doesn't become a big company. Both those
things have to be true to be able to
build a company that's durable and last.
And just be ready for 10 years. I mean,
it's not it's not going to be 6 months
or a year. It's going to be a slog and
constantly problem solving along the
way. So, it's splashy. It's fun, but
it's it's really [__] hard to to do.
>> I'd probably say don't do it. There's
easier there's probably easier things to
to get funded to do. Um, but listening
to the stories, as Greg said, when you
hear from one of your members about how
ladder has changed their life in some
way, and it's easy to to um, you know,
when you're looking at the charts and
everything kind of, you know, that that
gets lost on you sometimes, but, you
know, you're constantly pulled back by
these stories. And we I think our
creative team does a great job of
telling those those member stories, and
that's something we'll continue to do.
Our customers, as Greg said, they they
literally tell us what to do. I mean, we
we sent our annual survey out this year.
we'll we'll get, you know, we had 5,000
responses that take an hour on average
is what people are spending. We already
have 5,000 responses in the last two
days. Um, and they're answering 230 of
our like most, you know, burning
questions about, you know, what to build
from here, what companies to partner
with, would you be interested in
supplements coming from ladder,
everything as it relates to all the
different kind of surface area that we
could explore. So, like that's that's
really exciting to us is just continue
to listen to them. Like they're huge
advocates for us. Um, and so we're going
to continue to do that.
>> If you want to be by yourself with
headphones on, working on consumer, it's
a losing strategy. I mean, like like
that. And I I see that all the time
where it's like you're just building
[__] You got to be talking deeply to
the user.
>> If I think about the two like big world
things happening that probably most
impact your business that are out of
your control, it's AI and GLP1s. And I'm
really curious how you think about both
of those things as creators of
opportunity, as potentially risks.
>> I mean, I'll mention like I'll mention
GLP1 fast and then AI is like a much
bigger conversation, but like on GLOP1,
it's interesting because um all the
science would support that you need a
strength training plan alongside your
GLP-1 to, you know, you're at risk of so
much muscle loss. So, we think that's
actually a, you know, kind of macro
tailwind and something that will help
us. It's not something that we've
investigated to date. Um, but, you know,
could totally see us, you know, working
with some of the bigger GLP1 providers
at some point like that. You know, the
the science backs that relationship and
so that's not something that scares us.
Uh, in fact, it's a question we asked in
our survey which have never asked before
>> like are you on it or are you
>> Yeah, just these are people who are
fitness enthusiasts doesn't mean that
they're not on GLP1s and so we're going
to continue to learn more there. you
know on the AI I think what gets
exciting for us is that feels like we
can kind of have our cake and eat it too
now and that at in the beginning we felt
like we need to focus on a venture scale
business here and solving a problem
that's solvable for a customer with
software which felt like one to many
programming now with what's available to
us in AI we're we're able to deliver
that personalization as well which like
four years ago we couldn't have you know
two years ago we couldn't have launched
nutrition with our same team you know in
a you know six month span like we But I
think like beyond that um what I get
excited about is that in an age of like
you know just a lot less differentiation
in tech and commoditization of certain
features because it's become so easy to
people think you can just use chatt to
build an app. I would challenge someone
to try to build like the the experience
that we've built you know using AI and I
think we're going to continue to lean in
the things that the AI can't touch which
is like we've built a compelling brand.
We have a tremendous amount of trust
like from our members um which is which
is really exciting. We deliver a human
experience at scale because of it. We've
been thinking about it for four years.
We've been using as a tool for three
years and it it is chapters for us. In
in the beginning it was a a non-coding
tool. It was how do I synthesize
information? Well, it was amazing. I
could take 5,000 responses and really
understand what's what's happening. And
so then it was everywhere. Oh, I can
take it to think about how do I create
compelling Tik Tok hooks based on all of
this survey data or user data. That's a
tool. It saves time. But it happened at
the exact right moment where our entire
team is 50 people and that includes 20
full-time coaches. So 30 people
excluding coaches and we it came we
started scaling at the right moment
where AI started to become a a use case
that made us not have to go hire expand
the team just to solve a a problem that
we were looking to solve. like the team
would have been a lot bigger if this
were four years ago if we didn't have AI
in every element of our business. The
second chapter for us is is is using and
incorporating in the product, not
replacing the human. We believe in like
humans as motivation. It's really
important to feel like we're having a
relationship with the coach. But I don't
want to have coaches and reading chats
all day and interacting onetoone with
users. I want it to feel that way and
use tools to expand the capabilities of
our coach. We have teams with 60,000
people that are in it. And now the chats
are big and cumbersome and complex. And
the coach's message isn't the only
reason they're there, but it matters.
And the magic moment for a coach is
saying the right thing at the right
moment that makes the most people
satisfied with what they're saying. What
isn't a great use of time, which was
happening, is scrolling the chat for an
hour to go figure out what's happening
here. So, uh, we built a product called
Ladder Pulse that automatically you come
in, reads every single chat that's come
in, tells you, "Here are the three most
burning questions. Here's the content
you should create. Here's the member you
should respond to because they've never
been responded to by a coach. Send.
Done." So, now we've removed all the
cognitive overload of what to say, and
it's all powered by this tool that we
built purposely for for the business.
We're building software now to go
support a better experience that's built
on AI. Nutrition is a great example.
We'd have never gone into nutrition if
there was no AI. My fitness pal had to
build a database over time by hand that
became the value of My Fitness Pal.
That's not the hard part anymore. The
hard part is the consumer experience and
knowing what to do with the data. So, it
opened up the capability that wouldn't
have taken the business sideways for 5
years to go solve that problem. And then
we're inventing products from scratch.
Like I'll give you uh two examples. One,
we have I told you north 30,000 paying
members. We have one person that touches
support. It's not even her full-time
job. We have tickets coming in every
single day and we spent time trying to
understand who's coming in, what are
they asking, what are the buckets here
and we built a product. That person's
name is Mave. We built Mave AI, M A I V.
And we built a customer support tool
from scratch. It's purpose-built for our
company that manages now 90% of the flow
coming in and the experience is as good
or better and it's faster than it was
before. And we made it ourselves in our
team. Like that would not have been
possible 5 years ago. So like that
solved a huge problem. Now we don't have
to go expand that team and we can
deliver a better experience through
that. And we have a person on our team
who only works in AI. Like that's the
job. And he's been doing that for a long
time.
>> How do you think about um saying no to
potentially juicy revenue opportunities
that aren't core to the, you know,
subscription, complete a workout, you
know, acquire customers like uh I could
imagine the ladder data dating service.
I could imagine ladder being an
origination platform for GLP1 for
>> or ladder coach tools
>> or ladder coach tools. Absolutely. Yeah.
In the Ben Thompson sense of aggregation
theory like
>> you're maybe a consumer aggregator.
>> Um you've aggregated a lot of demand in
this specific space.
>> Historically those companies have
figured out how to monetize in lots of
different ways. How do you think about
the siren song of like higher RPO and
new sources of revenue and
>> but but a lot of those businesses have
have died too because of doing too much
at the same time and like we've had a
we've had a multi-phase vision from the
beginning of like what this thing can
become and our goal is is to be the de
facto product in this category and we
have stepping stones that we anchor to
and they get moved around but we have a
vision for how to go to go do that. I
think about new ventures, new business
as push versus pull. Are we being
dragged into this area by our members?
Is it so freaking clear that this is
going to be really exciting and solve a
really important problem for people that
are relevant to us like nutrition.
Nutrition was on the board as an
investor deck that you have from 5 years
ago, but it didn't make sense to build
it till last year when we had critical
mass. It was very very clear from our
members that that was going to move the
needle and now we'll build products on
top of that. So like we're ruthless in
prioritizing like you have to make a
clear clear case of what this does to
the business. We have no Android app.
People think that's insane. But building
an Android app requires basically
pausing development on iOS, splitting
the team's focus in time, playing this
game of catchup for a user that has much
lower revenue potential and could
absolutely take the business sideways
for a year. Will we have an Android app?
Yes. We won't have it this year. And so
like it's these levels in my mind like
we have to go earn the next level. And
if we earn the next level, what should
that be? let's figure it out and then
start to work on that. So, I think all
these things that everyone uh talks
about ladder, we'll go do all of them.
But I'm playing like a long game here.
Like this is not go sell the business.
Let's go build the generational business
in consumer that solves the most
problems for the most amount of people
>> in that big long-term vision. You know,
fitness, uh, working out and nutrition
are two obvious like major food groups
of of the vision. What else is on that
understandably flexible, but what are
the other like big stepping stones that
you think about?
>> It's the system of record for health and
fitness is kind of what Greg's talking
about and how we've talked about it for
a while. There's a category winner in
every category. Transportation, it's
Uber. In short-term housing, it's
Airbnb, Spotify, and music. There's no
clear winner in the health and fitness
category. Clearly needs to be a mobile
first company. It needs to be a a
product that has engagement that looks
like social that we have. nutrition was
the next obvious step and it increases
the surface area for us to really think
about these other product extensions and
line item extensions like you know some
of what we talk about is like there's so
much commerce already happening in the
app right like we see it every day we
see hey coach what's that creatine
you're having uh you know should I be
having whey or vegan protein and you
know love those new shoes you know where
do they come from people are sharing
links all day there's different chats
based on supplements or on food or on on
apparel for that matter matter. We're
watching, we're learning. Like there's
an opportunity for us to reduce friction
there and start to think about is that a
marketplace, you know, is it looked more
like an Amazon experience at first while
we're learning and then we're building
our own kind of branded products. Our
members want to tell us that they got a
DEXA scan and they would like this to be
their system of record for their
biomarkers. And there's a lot of people
building companies in the biomarker
space. I think that would be like a
really cool maybe partnership to start
or it could be a feature of our
business. Um, so we get excited about,
you know, if we build a compelling
product and brand where people are
opening this app 10, 15, 20 times a day,
there's a lot of opportunity for us to
to insert other products and and
experiences into it. So there's um
there's a long list that have been on
the white board kind of since the
beginning.
>> Yeah. What I think about is like product
expansion and and user expansion. And
product expansion, there's no like, oh
man, that's brilliant. is like it
becomes obvious when you look at it but
we launched nutrition now we have inputs
and we have outputs our members want us
to tell them what supplement do I need
to go take to make me whole they want to
buy that from us and like those will
become businesses for ladder when
there's critical mass and it becomes
very clear that this is a real problem
that we can solve uniquely for the
business so all those things start to
open up I think there's user expansion
too like we have a very specific user
it's a very big market but it's not
everybody in fitness right now so we
think about ladder it's how do I get 100
million people to be working out with
ladder every day. It might be a
different problem set than the current
product right now. We spend time
thinking about how do we get the people
earlier in their fitness journey into
ladder because if you think about our
product, it's progressive programming.
So they kind of already know they need
to know that programming is valuable.
They got to be into strength training.
Okay, that's its own bucket. They need
ability to pay for that. Use a phone
during a workout. Like all these things
are big market, but they're inhibitors
to broader fitness. And we've got this
content library that is not valuable to
our members. Our our members are paying
us not to think. They don't want any
choice. They want to know on Monday what
exactly should I do? And we asked this
question in a survey. We said, "What
would you pay for the whole library?"
And it was like a dollar because it's
not valuable to them. What am I I
already have my Monday workout. I don't
need 10,000 workouts, which is every
other fitness product. So I think
there's going to be a path. It's not
this year. It's not next year where we
give the individual content away where
we give away every other product which
is just the library because the library
isn't valuable and isn't what our
members are paying for but it starts to
map to how consumers in the outer ring
rings of fitness are consuming content.
What we learn investors come in and say
who's your biggest competitor? Is it
Pelaton? It's like no it's YouTube like
by far like it's not even close. It's
people going to YouTube and typing
45minut upper body dumbbell give me a
workout and then consuming it in
YouTube. YouTube's not built for
fitness, but the content lives there. We
need an on-ramp to ladder that mirrors
that consumption pattern. There's
amazing content, the best content.
You're getting it on YouTube. It all
lives here. It's free. These
motivational mechanics that are
important. It amplifies the importance
of social and the power there. So I
think there will be a premium component
that it will be the right moment to hit
on it. But we've been talking about and
thinking about it for a long time on how
do we get to the wider rings and then
over time you move those people just
like we do on TikTok into this concept
of a plan. Hey now you've done 40
workouts. They're in seven different
teams but you're not really happy that
your results aren't there. I got a
different way. We can tell you exactly
what it should be. And like the analogy
I I I I give to folks outside the
business is like you're working on a
puzzle. Like you're working on a puzzle.
You got the picture on the box and you
got all the pieces. You got 10,000
pieces and the picture is like what you
want to go build. Well, our members have
the vision of themselves. That's the box
that they're solving for. And we give
them each piece in order one by one to
construct the the puzzle that they're
trying to solve. No thinking at all.
Well, most products in fitness is just
bunch of random pieces and it's like
pick up a piece that you feel like doing
today. That's not a great strategy to
getting to results. One more question is
um what it's like talking to investors
now versus early on. This thing has
changed quite a bit. You've your sources
of capital have gotten
>> we talk about push versus pull.
>> Yeah. Increasingly sophisticated uh over
time. I I was the least sophisticated at
the start. You've gotten to much much
smarter, you know, more institutional
investors ever since the beginning. What
what say a little bit about that
journey? Well, you know, I think what's
what's exciting is that um just just on
like the investor landscape in general
is that there's not much innovation
being funded in in fitness right now.
When we first started trying to tell the
story and raise money to institutional
investors, it was like how could you
possibly compete with Pelaton? They're a
$50 billion company in that moment.
>> You should build AI weights. I remember
multiple times that seems like where's
the hardware? And then Pelaton has their
postcoavid troubled and they're like,
"Oh, well, Pelaton, you know, basically,
you know, didn't make it or that story
got very hard. How can you build a good
business? It can't be done." So, we're
like, "All right, so it's being a used
against us kind of twice now." But all
that while we've been iterating on
product and shipping product every other
day and listening to our customer and
building something that, you know, that
our members are telling us is really,
really valuable. And so, we have this
amazing head start where we feel like we
just don't really have any competition.
So that's that's been really exciting.
It was hard for a moment. Um now we find
ourselves in a position where you know
when you get to this kind of growth
stage um you know kind of people can see
the numbers. Um you can you know look at
app store metrics and see that our
business is inflecting and you know see
that the growth rate has been really
strong and so there's you know there's a
lot of investor interest. You know, I
think what's unique about conversation
with investors now is we're in a strong
position in that because of the general
catalyst deal. You know, there's no we
kind of control the timeline on raising
money. Our our business now generates
cash. It sustains itself. Um as and you
know, that doesn't mean we don't have
huge ambitions. We do as Greg just
talked about like we want to be the
system of record in health and fitness.
That's going to require raising
additional capital at least at least
another round and continue to invest in
particularly product and engineering.
Fortunately, we have some great
investors already around the table right
now. And the way we've been approaching
it is uh start to go and you know, kind
of spend time with a small group of
really high quality investors to get to
know them outside of the context of a
fundraising round, which is not
something that we were used to. You
know, now you have time to actually
build build rapport and uh get to know
people when you're not raising money.
>> What I think is important there like
four or five years ago, it was it's
cash. That's we just need cash. I don't
care who comes from terms. Sure, sounds
great. like we need money, we're dying.
>> Like that that there was no selectivity
and this GC deal has given us a lot of
leverage where we have more money in the
bank than we did when we closed our
series B a year ago. And it's giving us
time to really think about who are the
people that we want in the boardroom.
Who are the people that we want advice
from and talking to companies in their
portfolio and just even before we're
thinking about it, just knowing who are
the five human beings, forget firms
>> because that's less important to me. who
are the people that we're really excited
with for the next leg of ladder and we
now have some some cushion to go be
smart on that and that that was not
possible.
>> This remarkable journey is completely
crazy. I know it's hopefully chapter one
or two and there's a long story to still
be written. What is the kindest thing
anyone's ever done for you and you can
take that either personally or
professionally, however you want to take
it. I think it it has to be like my wife
through all of this. like she she
married an investment banker in New York
and San Francisco and that has a path
and a vision for life that you can kind
of predict and at steady state and then
I turned into this entrepreneur who's
making no money uh and we have three
children like she is also working very
hard but she has given me the room to
make this possible and if that dynamic
wasn't true there's just no way that I
could do this like there would be there
would be no path for me so like it's a
it's a huge burden um that she took on
and I think it's a it's a huge uh
component of how we got here.
>> Well, Greg just uh Greg just went with
the wife, so I can't do that even though
that would be the obvious. Got to got to
thank my wife who um been putting up
with me since we were since we were 19.
I would thank my my dad actually. Um you
know, I feel like when I when I try and
describe to like my kids what it is I do
or what my role is, I always, you know,
say that I sell. That's what I do. And
when I think about that, like the quote
that always got me excited was um what
Ken Griffin would say where I think I
don't even think it was his line, but if
we're all going to eat, someone's got to
sell. And that always kind of pumped me
up that, you know, that selling was
important. And it wasn't always
something that was transactional. But I
learned um sales watching my dad. Like
it's not something he told me. It was
something that just um being with him.
So we commuted to school for years, two
different private schools, or it was
like an hour commute and could be longer
with traffic. And this is kind of early
90s, mid9s. You got those old Zach
Morris cell phones. And my dad was a
mortgage originator, so he was always on
the phone and he was basically a
traveling salesman, but on the phone in
the car the entire time. So he would
have he was a he's a lefty. So he would
have his phone on his on his shoulder
and he would have uh his notebook on his
left hand taking notes and the map and
he'd be driving with his knees and we
would just be listening to my brother
and I would be listening to my dad
selling basically every day. The three
things that he taught me about sales are
one to be effective in sales, you need
people to like you. Ideally, ideally,
they want to root for you. And if you're
really good, you can get them to
potentially quit what they're doing and
want to join you. That would be like the
best thing. But then second thing is um
they need to trust you because that's
kind of all you have. Like integrity is
everything when it comes to sales. And
the and the third thing that you need to
be like relentless, but not in an
annoying way, just kind of deeply
persistent. And um that's just kind of
carried me well through two kind of very
different careers to date. And um you
know he's just been an awesome role
model and you know someone I think about
you know trying to teach my own kids
lessons like that.
>> Amazing place to end. You are one of the
best sales people I've ever met. Uh so
the the car rides worked. It
>> was effective getting me into ladder.
>> Yeah. Thank you so much.
>> Let's go. Thank you.
>> You know how small advantages compound
over time? That's true in investing and
just as true in how you run your
company. Your spending system is your
capital allocation strategy. RAMP makes
it smarter by default. Better data,
better decisions, better economics over
time. See how at ramp.com/invest.
As your business grows, Vanta scales
with you, automating compliance and
giving you a single source of truth for
security and risk. Learn more at
vanta.com/invest.
Every investment firm is unique and
generic AI doesn't understand your
process. Rogo does. It's an AI platform
built specifically for Wall Street.
Connected to your data, understanding
your process, and producing real
outputs. Check them out at
rogo.ai/invest.
The best AI and software companies from
OpenAI to cursor to perplexity. Use work
OS to become enterprise ready overnight,
not in months. Visit works.com to skip
the unglamorous infrastructure work and
focus on your product. Ridgeline is
redefining asset management technology
as a true partner, not just a software
vendor. They've helped firms 5x in
scale, enabling faster growth, smarter
operations, and a competitive edge.